Tal/rearch/pandas polars tutorial (#245)
GlareDB/glaredb.github.io: tutorials/interop-with-pandas-and-polars.md

---
title: Interoperability with Pandas and Polars
layout: default
nav_order: 2
parent: Tutorials
---

GlareDB can seamlessly read from, and write to, Panda and Polars. This enables
many interesting workflows for data exploration as well as integration with
other data tools.

> ## Select from a Pandas or Polars dataframe with GlareDB

Reviewer: I think we should capitalize Dataframe here

If you have a Pandas dataframe in memory, you can readily select from
it:

```python
import pandas as pd
import glaredb

df = pd.read_csv('https://github.com/GlareDB/glaredb/raw/main/testdata/csv/userdata1.csv')

con = glaredb.connect()
con.sql(
    """
        SELECT * FROM df WHERE country='Canada'
    """
).show()
```

Notice how the `df` variable to which the Pandas dataframe is assigned is
included in the session scope, and so can be dropped into the query as if

> it were a table in the database.

Reviewer: I think we should omit the wording of "Notice" and "dropped" to avoid a tone in the former case and confusion with dropping tables in the latter.

Something like:

```MD
The `df` variable, a Pandas dataframe, is in scope and be referenced in the GlareDB query as if it were a table in a database.
```

You can also do the same thing with a Polars dataframe:

```python
import polars as pl
import glaredb

polars_df = pl.read_csv('https://github.com/GlareDB/glaredb/raw/main/testdata/csv/userdata1.csv')

con = glaredb.connect()
con.sql(
    """
        SELECT * FROM polars_df WHERE country='Canada'
    """
).show()
```

> ## Output the Results of a Query to a Pandas or Polars Dataframe

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Assign the Results of a Query to a Dataframe
```

In addition to selecting from Pandas and Polars dataframes, GlareDB enables

> yout to output the results of queries as Pandas and Polars dataframes:

Reviewer: I'd omit all of this, since we have the "putting this altogether" paragraph after

> 

Reviewer: In addition to..., the results of GlareDB queries can be assigned as Pandas or Polars dataframes.

```python
df = con.sql("SELECT 1").to_pandas()
polars_df = con.sql("SELECT 1").to_polars()

> ```

Reviewer: If taking my suggestion about removing the prior paragraph, I think we provide a simple statement before each code snippet, approximately:

To convert the output of a GlareDB query to a Pandas dataframe, use `to_pandas`:

Code snippet

Similarly, use `to_polars` for Polars:

Code snippet

Putting it altogether, this lets you do things like construct a dataframe with

> Pandas, manipulate it with SQL using GlareDB, and output it again as a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pandas, manipulate it with SQL using GlareDB, and use the output again as a
```

dataframe:

```python
df = pd.read_csv('https://github.com/GlareDB/glaredb/raw/main/testdata/csv/userdata1.csv')

con = glaredb.connect()
canada_users = con.sql(
    """
        SELECT * FROM df WHERE country='Canada'
    """
).to_pandas()

canada_users_with_no_listed_professions = con.sql(
    """
        SELECT * FROM canada_users WHERE title IS NULL
    """
).to_pandas()
```

## Integration with Other Data Tools

Given the ease with which you can read from, and write to, Pandas and Polars
dataframes, and given how many other data tools can work with dataframes, this
can unlock some powerful workflows.

For instance, in [Dashboards Across Space and Time], you can learn how to
combine Streamlit with GlareDB data output as a dataframe to construct
complex dashboards with relatively little effort.

And in [Data Quality Across Space and Time], you can learn how to use Great

> Expectations together with GlareDB data output as a dataframe to add data

Reviewer: Perhaps add a link to GX
